---
title: Top tips to Pass RCSI aptitude theory test-Part 1
subtitle: Practical Tips for Nursing Aptitude Theory Tests
category:
  - NMBI registration
author: Jinish Rajan
date: 2020-08-07T08:00:33.666Z
featureImage: /uploads/overseas-test-desktop-banner.jpg
---
## **How can I pass RCSI aptitude theory test-Part 1**


This blog focus on some of the practical aspects of nursing aptitude test in Ireland. This series tries to break the questions presented in the RCSI aptitude test and will provide some useful tips to Pass RCSI aptitude theory test

If you want to know more about RCSI aptitude test Please click here

* RCSI nursing aptitude test
* What is nursing aptitude test?

### 
Top Tips to Pass Theory test of RCSI Aptitude test


As you must have noticed elsewhere, there are 150 questions. All questions are multiple-choice questions. You need to get 50% of the questions correct to pass the test.

having understood the background, let’s start breaking some of the theory questions. For the purpose of this exercise, we take the sample questions given in the RCSI website. These questions can be found here.

* Cardiac output is defined as which of the following?

  * The total amount of blood ejected by one of the ventricles in litres per minute
  * The degree of stretch of the ventricular cardiac muscle fibers
  * The resistance to ejection of blood from the ventricle
  * The force generated by the contracting myocardium


Let’s analyse this question. This can be categorized as knowledge questions. This is one of the basic theory a nurse must have studied during anatomy/physiology classes. There are 4 options and all are related to cardiac functioning. Option 1 is the right answer. Option 2 refers to preload. 3rd option refers to Afterload and the 4th option is the force, nothing to do with cardiac output. 

If you want to Pass RCSI aptitude theory test, you should revise and refresh your theory knowledge.

Let’s examine some more knowledge questions

* Peptic ulcers are thought to be the result of which one of the following?

  * Genetic defect
  * Fatty diet
  * Stress
  * Helicobacter Pylori infection

The above question is trickier. You can not use logic or guesswork here. You should know the theory part of it. The correct answer is option 4. As mentioned earlier, to pass RCSI aptitude theory test read more questions like this. A good source will be some of the NCLEX materials available on a quick google search.

Lets Examine another one

* The closure or collapse of alveoli is referred to as which of the following?

  * Atelectasis
  * Haemothorax
  * Pleural effusion
  * Pneumothorax

The above question is also testing your theoretical knowledge. The correct answer is option 1 atelectasis.

### How to answer Knowledge questions.


In the first question even if you don’t know the concept, the word ‘cardiac output’ is mostly aligned with ‘output’ which is in turn total amount of blood ejected by one of the ventricles in litres per minute. If you know what is preload and afterload, you are effectively eliminating these options from the answer. second and third questions did not give the luxury of guessing.



#### Top tips to get Knowledge question right in the RCSI theory test.

* You should have knowledge about the theory part. Please ***revise the major concepts within anatomy, physiology, medical and surgical nursing***
* If you are stuck, use ***the method of elimination and logic***


This blog will be continued with the analysis of more questions.

Meanwhile check [RCSI webpage](https://www.rcsi.com/dublin/professional-cpd/nursing-and-midwifery/overseas-aptitude-test/theory-test) for get some more info and sample questions.